README.md, before:

# Newspaper Owner Financial Interests (1870-1890)

A Python-based research project analyzing the financial interests of American newspaper owners during the Gilded Age (1870-1890).

## Project Overview

This repository contains code and analysis for investigating the economic ties and financial interests of newspaper proprietors in late 19th-century America. The project combines historical data sources with modern computational methods to explore questions about media ownership and potential conflicts of interest during this formative period in American journalism.

**Status:** Work in progress (as of February 7, 2025)

## Current Components

### Data Collection
- **Newspaper Directory Scraping**: Code for extracting information from historical newspaper directories
- **American Stories Integration**: Tools for working with Melissa Dell's American Stories dataset

### Analysis
- **Regression Analysis**: Statistical models examining relationships between ownership patterns and [add your specific focus]

## Repository Structure
```
.
├── data/                      # Data files (not tracked in git)
├── archive/                   # Archived/deprecated code (not tracked in git)
├── figures/                   # Generated plots and visualizations
├── registry_data_extraction.ipynb        # Scripts for extracting structured data from Rowell's American Newspaper Directories (1869-1890)
├── exploration.ipynb     # Misc. scripts
├── american_stories_merger.ipynb    # Scripts for linking Newspaper directory data with American Stories
└── README.md
```

## Data Sources

- [Melissa Dell's American Stories Dataset](https://github.com/dell-research-harvard/americanstories)
- Historical newspaper directories (1870-1890)

## Setup
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone [your-repo-url]
cd [repo-name]

# Install dependencies
# TODO: Add requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

N/A

## Methodology

N/A

## Results

N/A

## To-Do

N/A

## Citation

N/A

## License

NA

## Contact

s.torres4@lse.ac.uk

---

*This is an active research project. Code and documentation will be updated regularly.*

Commit message:

Data quality improvements and further restructuring

README.md, after:

# Newspaper Owner Financial Interests (1870-1890)

A Python-based research project analyzing the financial interests of American newspaper owners during the Gilded Age (1870-1890).

## Project Overview

This repository contains code and analysis for investigating the economic ties and financial interests of newspaper proprietors in late 19th-century America. The project combines historical data sources with modern computational methods to explore questions about media ownership and potential conflicts of interest during this formative period in American journalism.

**Status:** Work in progress (as of February 7, 2025)

## Current Components

### Data Collection
- **Newspaper Directory Scraping**: Code for extracting information from historical newspaper directories
- **American Stories Integration**: Tools for working with Melissa Dell's American Stories dataset

### Analysis
- **Regression Analysis**: Statistical models examining relationships between ownership patterns and [add your specific focus]

## Repository Structure
```
.
├── data/                      # Data files (not tracked in git)
├── archive/                   # Archived/deprecated code (not tracked in git)
├── figures/                   # Generated plots and visualizations
├── registry_data_extraction.ipynb        # Scripts for extracting structured data from Rowell's American Newspaper Directories (1869-1890)
├── editor_publisher_change_did.ipynb     # Script for building panel data and running DiD on newspapers with changes in editor/owner
├── exploration.ipynb     # Misc. scripts
├── american_stories_merger.ipynb    # Scripts for linking Newspaper directory data with American Stories
└── README.md
```

## Data Sources

- [Melissa Dell's American Stories Dataset](https://github.com/dell-research-harvard/americanstories)
- Historical newspaper directories (1870-1890)

Geo. P. Rowell and Co.’s American Newspaper Directory was a directory to US newspapers and periodicals published in the mid-to-late 19th century, first published in 1869. 14 total scanned editions were used to assemble a dataset of American newspapers over
time from 1869 to 1890.3 This contains newspapers listed in Rowell’s, with their location, circulation, frequency of distribution, and most importantly, editors and owners for each year in the dataset.

## Setup
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone [your-repo-url]
cd [repo-name]

# Install dependencies
# TODO: Add requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

N/A

## Methodology

N/A

## Results

N/A

## To-Do

N/A

## Citation

N/A

## License

NA

## Contact

s.torres4@lse.ac.uk

---

*This is an active research project. Code and documentation will be updated regularly.*
